At this point in the course, hopefully,
we're starting to feel pretty comfortable
with SQL Syntax, and have started to get
a good sense of some of those SQL
queries you will be using as an analyst.
Before we continue though, I wanted to
take a moment to give you some perspective
about where SQL queries fall
in your job as a data analyst.
We designed the specialization and
analytic techniques for business, to help
prepare you to be the type of business
analyst who creates value out of data.
In this fourth course
of the specialization,
we are not just focusing on
the details about how to write SQL
queries because relational
databases are interesting,
we are focusing on the details about how
to write SQL queries because writing
SQL queries is one of the skills that
will help you create business value.
Learning the technical rules for how
to write SQL queries is very important.
That's why we have this course after all.
And it's good to focus on
the rules while you are learning.
But try to remember
the broader perspective as we
go through the details of these rule.
Even if you write the perfect SQL query,
the output of the query won't create
business value, unless the questions you
ask are meaningful and your
interpretation of the results are correct.
Thinking about this end goal might
give you the motivation you need
to pay attention to the details
which determine whether your queries
really give you the results you want.
Another way to think about the broader
perspective, is that for a data analysis
project to provide tangible value for a
company, it needs to provide insight into
business processes that a business has
the ability and willingness to improve.
A data analyst working on such
a project needs to always be thinking
about the following questions.
What questions will provide
actionable insight?
Will the answers to my questions matter?
Are the answers to my questions correct?
We'll come back to the first two of these
questions in the last week of this course.
But we can already start thinking
about the last question now,
as we are starting to write queries.
Real life data sets are messy and
complicated.
If you aren't paying attention,
you could miss the mess and
arrive at incorrect conclusions.
You just saw an example in our last
MySQL exercise about what messy
data looked like.
If you hadn't explored the raw time stamps
of the exam answers table in the Dognition
dataset you might have included some
very incorrect data in your reaction
time summaries.
So how do you make sure you catch these
mistakes in your data before you make
business recommendations?
The answer is that you start,
now, building habits that will enable you
to catch even the smallest hints that
something might be wrong
with your analysis.
Here's Elena Grewal, data science manager
from the well-known Airbnb sharing her
perspective about these habits.
>> And so I think being kind of single
mindedly paranoid about your data
quality is actually one of the biggest
ways that you can prevent mistakes.
I kind of think about it as
developing a data intuition,
there's this kind of sense that you
have that something's not quite right.
And that comes with experience, for
sure, where you get really familiar with
the data that you're looking at, and
you can say, wait, I know that on average
the percentage is this, why is it
different in my table, something is wrong.
And that's definitely very important for
helping to remand mistakes.
>> In the Data Visualization and
Communication with Tableau course, I gave
you ten tips for becoming a data analyst.
Two of those tips involve building habits
that will help you catch mistakes.
My first tip was to get in the habit
of being skeptical about your data, or
as I said train your skepticism muscles.
Here is my description.
I'm telling you this from experience.
Whenever you see a really dramatic or
surprising effect in your data
that nobody in your team or
company expected, nine times out of ten or
maybe even 99 times out of 100, it's
due to a bookkeeping or coding mistake.
There's probably a bug in your code, a
misaligned column in your spreadsheet, or
incorrect labels somewhere
in your data set.
Similarly, whenever somebody tells you
something with extreme confidence,
temper your expectations.
It's probably more complicated and
messy than they are making it out to be.
I also told you to seek details.
Don't take your data at face value.
Be passionate about figuring out
what your data really looked like.
The way to put Elena's and my advice into
practice now, is to challenge yourself to
think of different ways to
make sure your results and
interpretations are correct as
you practice writing queries.
Always look at subsets in the data and
query outputs with your eyes,
before you start strongly interpreting
calculations and aggregate functions.
And as soon as you feel comfortably
enough with queries syntax, start looking
at every aspect of the Dognition data you
can to get a feel for what they look like.
Examine them with an eye for
how the data could be used to answer
Dognition's business questions.
Overall, you are trying to cultivate
an insatiable desire to find the right
answers to your business problem.
If you are motivated by getting
the correct answers, you will be more
likely to be motivated to catch
mistakes in your queries along the way,
that could impact your
analysis conclusions.
So whenever you are getting
frustrated with SQL queries, or
disheartened by the messiness of
the data you are working with,
just remember the broader perspective.
You are creating brand new value for
your business,
that it didn't even know existed.
That's really exciting.
And it's also worth getting right.
So pay attention to details, and be ready
to conquer any mistakes in the data or
your queries that come your way.